Thanks to my professional career
and especially now at The Power
of Media, the truth is I'm lucky
to meet almost every successful
entrepreneur every day.
Well, not only success, but we
have also analyzed a lot of failure
cases and what I'm going to
share with you is a summary of
some of the most common tips
we've identified most common
in successful entrepreneurs.
In fact, they will be 11.
And in many cases, it's advice you'
re going to say, well, it's pure
common sense.
They are common sense, but the reality
is that very few people take them
into account.
And not taking them into account in many
cases leads you to failure.
We start.
The first is to disappoint your idea.
And why do we say this?
This is very common for entrepreneurs
who fall in love with their business.
One day an idea comes to their heads,
they get crazy, they think they have
got the Coca-Cola formula and
that that idea is unique in the
world and will make them millionaries.
And it also seems that many times
it is very funny, but they don'
t want to tell anyone, they want
to develop the project almost hidden.
You have probably known such cases.
Well, because the reality, pure
statistics, is that your project
probably fails and your idea
probably isn't as wonderful
as you think.
That is the reality.
If you have an idea and
one day you wonder
your idea, remember this.
Remember, this may not be as
fat as I thought.
All projects have
to start with a vision.
This idea is born of your idea.
Vision is where you want to get.
Do you want to change the world?
Do you want to revolutionize a business?
I don't know, whatever it is.
The vision is the anchor, it must guide you.
What happens is that what you
have to be flexible is on the way.
How will you come to that vision?
You have to be flexible.
You have to be able to listen to other
people and above all what you have
to be very able to understand
what the market says to you.
Always with your vision in mind,
but with the flexibility
enough to know how to go
pivoting, looking at the path that
will lead you to that vision.
The first is Lean
Startup.
Lean Startup is a methodology that
will help you a lot and you will
learn it in The Power MBA.
And I can tell you, we will see it
in more detail, but that there
are very many cases of failure,
in some cases of very prepared
people and that have been invested
and wasted millions of euros,
which could have been solved in
a very simple way simply having
applied the principles of Lean
Startup.
And I know people even,
serial entrepreneurs, now successful,
who all their previous projects,
which count as an anecdote
that the day they read the book,
realized that all the projects
and all the money they
had thrown up to date
could have saved them.
No. 3: Don't wait for a business
angel.
We have used the term Business
Angel, but well, what I mean here
is that if you have an idea,
if you want to learn, do
not do something that is very common
in entrepreneurs and is to wait
for someone to help them or
someone to solve the paper,
no.
And you should not block your decision
or condition it to come a Business
Angel and fund your project
when you have not yet demonstrated
anything, or to get the typical
award with coaching in a
trade chamber or incubator,
etc., no.
If you really want to do so, if
you trust your project and believe
you have the necessary knowledge
and competences, what you have
to do is start yourself.
And then we will see it in more detail,
but usually the recommended thing is
that you start with your resources or
with the resources of very close people.
Don't block the decision waiting for
someone to fix it for you.
Tip number four, don't get
mad with technical development.
What do I mean with this?
And it is something very usual.
If you are an entrepreneur, you are
sure to be identified.
Especially entrepreneurs whose
proposals require or are balanced
on a website, on a platform,
in an application, etc.
The usual thing is that, especially
entrepreneurs who are not experts
in the technical area, they find
a world of creating the website
and creating the platform.
And from the beginning what they
do is look for a supplier and put
themselves in the hands of an agency
or a programmer, etc., which seems
to become the most important person
in the company during the
first months.
And all the effort, all the focus
and all the budget goes there
to create the website.
It is ridiculous, I tell you, it is
ridiculous, don't do it.
What you have to do at first
is, the most important thing is to validate
that that you are building, there
is someone who wants to buy it,
someone sees value and in addition
that that feedback incorporates
it into the product development.
And the least important thing is how
to give it a solution, really, because
that is a commodity.
The important thing, what creates true
value is that you are able to identify
something or be able to create
something that people want to buy.
The technical specifications
are much less important, don'
t focus on that, don'
t wear it off.
We're going to get the fifth tip and
what we're going to start talking
about here is, they're tips related
to partners, the team, etc.,
with whom to surround you.
The first is to find a partner.
It is very hard to be an entrepreneur
if you are alone and if we think
of the main ones, we can think of
the main exits in recent years
in Spain, almost all, are at
least two or more co-founders.
Why is?
For several reasons, first because there
are many bad days in which having partners
helps you and also because it is very
difficult, except that you are superman,
that you have all the abilities,
all the competencies, that you
are a leader, good communicator,
visionary, you understand the
business, you understand the networking,
you understand the money, it
is very complicated.
Instead, it is much easier than
between two or three or four
people, maybe four is too
much, all those competences are combined.
In addition, the choice of those
partners is very important and in
many cases the partners are chosen without
thinking.
It seems to be done naturally.
But you really have to make
this decision very reasonably.
And one of the recommendations of the
advice I have heard from many successful
entrepreneurs, that in addition if we
analyze them is so, it is that people
have been associated that complement
themselves.
What do I mean by this?
People who have different competencies,
because one is more technical and
the other is more focused on business,
one is more commercial and the
other is more executive,
I don't know.
But they come together, they generate
those synergies and it is also important,
another factor that is important, and
is that each person likes to do different
things.
Because there is one that likes
to manage teams more and the other
likes to sell and be in events,
be in the saras, well.
But this is important because I
have met cases of entrepreneurs
who were very similar in the
end, they understood each other
well but they were too
similar and both liked doing the
same thing.
And they were not generating value,
they were destroying value, there was
a duplicity.
Another unromantic recommendation
is that things stay very clear and
written from the first day.
I know you won't do this because
people of that and this advice.
But think one thing, just think this,
spend five minutes or less thinking
about cases close to you of entrepreneurs
or entrepreneurs who have discussed
with their partners, it's super
common.
Why is?
Well, because things, first
because decisions were
made without thinking too much
and also not established in
writing.
Relationships usually
last for many years,
good times, bad times
and opportunities
to discuss are countless.
Take it into account.
Another recommendation is that, I said
before, you are looking for a partner, looking
for one or several partners, but what
is not that you are too founding partners.
For example, the typical case of the
master's project.
Among all of you who have
participated in the project say,
well, let's build the company.
This is a guaranteed failure
formula, for many reasons.
Because within those 5 or
6 people, 7 who they are,
there are probably many conflicts
of interest.
Some are willing to work more,
some want to roll a lot
in the project and others
want to have it like an accessory.
For example, some want to work
hard and others expect something
else.
Well, the point is not to associate,
not to be too partners
and so on.
There is another reason and you
will understand it later and is that
if within the founders team each
of the founders is already
too diluted.
That is, it has a small percentage
of the company.
After that, when funding
rounds are made, investors
enter and founders are
diluted.
In the end, what will happen is
that you will have such a small percentage
of the company that it won't
be worth it.
You will lose motivation
and that doesn't like investors.
I can tell you an anecdote.
For example, we were not long
ago about to enter a very interesting
project with an innovative
technology that created
a lot of value, etc., even
patented, but that the team
of the founders was very
diluted.
They were many founders.
Because it was the project so
attractive that when they went to the
bank to ask for money the bank director
put money.
When they went to the notary to sign
the writings, the notary put in money.
Everyone was putting money.
In conclusion, the founding partners,
the company managers who were
mainly two and by the way one
is the one of Power MBA, already
had a minority percentage.
So, of course, for investors
later that is very unattractive
because you are getting into a
company with too many partners
in which those who provide
value are already diluted.
The risk of being discouraged is very
high because they perceive less
long-term benefit.
Now let's get advice
about who to hire and how
to hire.
There is a very common advice
that we have heard many times
in successful entrepreneurs is
to hire slowly and quit quickly.
Why are you hiring slowly?
This is something that is sometimes
very complicated in startups because
you have to keep in mind that startups
are companies that grow a lot
in the first few years.
That you move from founding partners
to dozens of employees very quickly.
Every day it seems like you need
a new person.
There is a tendency
to hire too quickly.
And really the recommendation
is to be patient, to be patient
because in addition the
needs you have today of human
capital may change tomorrow.
Therefore, it is risky
to hire every time a need
arises.
And the second part of the
recommendations is hurried off.
Sometimes it's hard, to say goodbye
is very hard, but you really have
to be inflexible about it when
you identify that there are people
inside your team that don't fit within
the culture or that don't share
values, etc.
It is best to fired him as soon
as possible.
Another recommendation is to look
for micro-entrepreneurs.
And I will explain why.
I don't know if you know the world
of startup, I don't know if you
know the culture or some organization
like that, but it's how the working
environment and culture in
a startup is very different from
traditional companies for many reasons.
It is a much more dynamic environment,
opportunities are much greater,
companies that grow are those that
go well, they grow much more than
traditional companies
that are already in a mature
market, in principle the
growth is less.
The challenge is bigger and the
opportunities are bigger.
It is also true that in some cases
the companies when the working
conditions are born are not
so good.
We look at it from an objective
or traditional perspective.
And the risk is even greater.
So you have to look for people
who are like the founders,
who are microentrepreneurs.
People who have a lot of
capacity, a lot of
productivity, a lot of initiative.
You can't hire profiles that
are waiting for you to tell
you what to do.
You have to hire profiles that arrive
in the morning at the office and that
are able to create value to the company
without anyone telling them
anything.
They are micro-entrepreneurs.
They also share their values.
And finally, it's something that's very well-
known and that's very well known that it'
s the advice to surround yourself with people
better than you.
But that's the reality and it's the
best you can do.
You have to find people who are
great to be better than you.
This is the only way you can
build a team that will support
you.
The reality is that the first five
or six employees in your company
will determine the success of your
failure.
So, they are looking for great people.